hi everyone I'm marina welcome to my
garden even though we're in my kitchen
once again this week I'm gonna show you
how to make a homemade fungicide using
some very simple home ingredients so
let's see how we make
hey we're gonna make this fungicide and
we're going to address the subject of
powdery mildew I know nobody who's a
gardener likes to hear that powdery
mildew is it's it's a nemesis this time
of year especially if you live in a
place with high humidity this is going
to help you eliminate that it might not
you know once you notice powdery mildew
sometimes it might be a little too late
but we can help save your plants from
being more damaged than they might
already be I'm gonna take you out in the
garden a little bit later I'm going to
show you what powdery mildew looks like
but this fungicide very simple we're
gonna use an empty spray bottle right
there we're gonna start off with about a
quart of water I probably have a little
more than a quart of water we're gonna
use some baking soda which is a miracle
drug you should have it in your house I
usually buy it in five-pound bags at
Sam's Club but this box has been lurking
around in my pantry
we're gonna use some dish soap again
we're gonna use some vegetable oil again
and remember all these things work in
concert together the baking soda is the
magic ingredient here and that is what
is going to help eliminate the powdery
mildew and it's gonna make it go away
and it's gonna help it stop from
spreading what I'm going to use to this
quart of water is a tablespoon and a
half and this is a tablespoon and a half
measure because when you buy these
KitchenAid measuring cups they will
measuring spoons they come with a one
and a half teaspoon or one and a half
tablespoon measure so baking soda and if
you keep baking soda in your pantry like
I do make sure you take a sharpie marker
and write it on there because when your
teenage daughter goes to bake cookies
and you have one like this and you have
cornstarch in the other and you know
what it is but she doesn't you know it
just saves a lot of confusion okay so
baking soda in the quart of water also
we're gonna use a tablespoon each I'm
sorry we use a tablespoon of oil doesn't
matter what kind of oil don't use all of
one that's just a waste of good
ingredients just use all-purpose
vegetable oil
and you'll notice that I did the oil
first and then we're gonna use two
tablespoons of dish soap and it doesn't
matter what kind if you like to use the
green style like you environmentally
friendly is why I mean when I say that
this soap and that's even you know
that's fine too
it's all good I like to buy cheap dish
soap because you know when you have
teenagers in your house they like to
drink that stuff
and just give it a good mix and then I'm
gonna pour this in my spray bottle and
we're gonna go out in the garden I'm
gonna show you what powdery mildew is
now one caveat it is probably the
warmest part of the day right now or
close to it if you can try and avoid
spraying this on your plants when it's
really warm outside and really sunny if
you can do it early in the morning or in
the evening before you know the Sun Goes
Down then that is what I recommend also
an overcast day is actually like the
perfect day to spray if you are able to
now I do still think that it's best to
avoid doing this when it's super hot
outside because you can burn your leaves
and we don't want to do that we're
trying to save our leaves so I'll meet
you out in the garden I'll show you what
powdery mildew looks like you can see
here what these leaves look like you see
how these have dried up and they're kind
of mottled with yellowish looking ick
well that my friend is powdery mildew
and this looks like I've got a little
Mexican beetle havin some dinner but I
have cucumbers growing anyway the
majority of these plants like I said
I've conducted an experiment this year
I've planted cucumbers in this spot for
several seasons and honestly
can't say that I've had the best success
I thought it was because I was planting
more than one variety but it turns out
maybe it's just this area up here so I
have cucumbers in another section of the
garden and I'll walk you over there I'll
show you what those look like but this
is what powdery mildew looks like also
it will get a white film and spray with
this spray with your baking soda and
your soap and about once a week you
gonna want to come back and give it
another spray hey these are the
cucumbers I planted as a test
looks like something's been munching on
one of those leaves but that's okay I'm
gonna give these a spray just as a
precautionary measure
so see if it gets on my grape tomato but
remember these are the cucumbers that I
bought at the nursery that were on the
dollar clearance rack because it was too
late in the season for people to be
planting not true never assume that so I
mean look these the grapes the grape
tomato plant that was on that dollar
clearance bin and look at the bracket of
tomatoes are already starting to produce
and we will have grape tomatoes coming
out of our ears until October and that
is no joke so this is what healthy
cucumber looks like even though those
cucumbers over there are pseudo they're
they're quasi healthy let's say because
I still in producing vegetables on them
this one here has just really started to
take off and you see I have cucumbers
coming on down toward the bottom and
it's really taking off quite well so
that is how you make a homemade
fungicide baking soda vegetable oil and
dish soap so I hope that this helps I
hope you learned something I hope you
try it I hope you love it
and until next week happy planting